Sample instructional video text from a course designed to train call center workers:

How do I tell good and bad resources apart?
With countless resources online, it’s becoming harder and harder to find quality 
resources. As you know, just because something is online, it doesn’t mean it’s true!
Plus, most people have some degree of “information illiteracy”, which means that many 
people have trouble telling quality information apart from information they cannot trust. This is 
also part of why people sometimes fall for things like scams and conspiracy theories that you 
may feel obviously do not have a shred of truth to them.
It’s incredibly important to be able to tell good and bad resources apart if you must go 
outside your company’s knowledge base for assistance. You don’t want to spread 
misinformation to your caller!
Luckily, there are some pretty easy ways to tell good and bad information apart!
Consider the source. You can trust your company’s knowledge base as a great source 
for the information you need to solve customer’s problems and can likely trust your company’s 
Help section or articles they’ve posted on the subject to help callers.
In cases like these, the company’s resources are primary sources. A primary source is 
an original, firsthand account on the subject and is considered authoritative. If you go outside 
the company for resources, it will be harder to find something definitive for you to use.
This is because these resources are secondary resources. A secondary resource could be an 
article, blog post, forum post, or another website. It’s important to think about the motive behind 
this resource and avoid anything that may be outdated or unreliable due to bias. Keep in mind 
that some search results you see may be ads for other companies disguised as help articles! Be 
aware of your competitor’s websites and any sponsored content you may see from other 
companies. 
Avoid superlatives. Avoid sites that claim to be “The best” or “The #1 resource” on a 
topic. Claims like this are usually not fact-based and may be a marketing ploy for the site.
Go beyond the first few results. Keep in mind that some companies pay search engines to place 
their pages at the tops of search results, and that what you see first is usually based on the 
amount of clicks that site has gotten in the past, not based on the quality of the content, and, in 
some cases, not even to the site’s relevance to your search query!
Read the text you can see in the preview to check for the words you entered in the 
search bar and choose the result you think best fits your query.
Beware of confirmation bias. Our confirmation bias is our own tendency to avoid 
resources that do not confirm our point of view or reinforce our established beliefs. You may 
already have your own opinion about what’s causing the caller’s problem and simply be 
searching for a resource to back up your claim, but if you’re wrong, you might be ignoring 
important resources about different solutions and problems.
Make sure you focus on what will help the caller best and do not let unfounded 
suspicions get in the way of your solution.
